website/docs/install-config/install/docker-compose.mdx, before:

---
title: Docker Compose installation
---

This installation method is for test setups and small-scale production setups.

## Requirements

- A host with at least 2 CPU cores and 2 GB of RAM
- Docker
- Docker Compose (Compose v2, see [instructions for upgrade](https://docs.docker.com/compose/migrate/))

## Video

<iframe
    width="560"
    height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/O1qUbrk4Yc8?si=HiSBjmJYhE_oJhB1&amp;start=22"
    title="YouTube video player"
    frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Preparation

To download the latest `docker-compose.yml` open your terminal and navigate to the directory of your choice.
Run the following command:

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs groupId="OS">
    <TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux" default>
        ```shell
        wget https://goauthentik.io/docker-compose.yml
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="macOS" label="macOS">
        ```shell
        curl -O https://goauthentik.io/docker-compose.yml
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

If this is a fresh authentik installation, you need to generate a password and a secret key. Use a secure password generator of your choice such as pwgen, or you can use `openssl` as below.

Run the following commands to generate a password and secret key and write them to your `.env` file:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```shell
echo "PG_PASS=$(openssl rand -base64 36 | tr -d '\n')" >> .env
echo "AUTHENTIK_SECRET_KEY=$(openssl rand -base64 60 | tr -d '\n')" >> .env
```

:::info
Because of a PostgreSQL limitation, only passwords up to 99 chars are supported. See: https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/09512C4F-8CB9-4021-B455-EF4C4F0D55A0@amazon.com
:::

To enable error reporting, run the following command:

```shell
echo "AUTHENTIK_ERROR_REPORTING__ENABLED=true" >> .env
```

## Email configuration (optional but recommended)

It is also recommended to configure global email credentials. These are used by authentik to notify you about alerts and configuration issues. They can also be used by [Email stages](../../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/email/index.mdx) to send verification/recovery emails.

To configure email credentials, append this block to your `.env` file

```shell
# SMTP Host Emails are sent to
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__HOST=localhost
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__PORT=25
# Optionally authenticate (don't add quotation marks to your password)
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__USERNAME=
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__PASSWORD=
# Use StartTLS
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__USE_TLS=false
# Use SSL
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__USE_SSL=false
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__TIMEOUT=10
# Email address authentik will send from, should have a correct @domain
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__FROM=authentik@localhost
```

## Configure for port 80/443

By default, authentik listens internally on port 9000 for HTTP and 9443 for HTTPS. To change the exposed ports to 80 and 443, you can set the following variables in `.env`:

```shell
COMPOSE_PORT_HTTP=80
COMPOSE_PORT_HTTPS=443
```

See [Configuration](../configuration/configuration.mdx) to change the internal ports. Be sure to run `docker compose up -d` to rebuild with the new port numbers.

## Startup

:::warning
The server assumes to have local timezone as UTC.
All internals are handled in UTC; whenever a time is displayed to the user in UI, the time shown is localized.
Do not update or mount `/etc/timezone` or `/etc/localtime` in the authentik containers.
This will not give any advantages. It will cause problems with OAuth and SAML authentication, e.g. [see this GitHub issue](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/issues/3005).
:::

Afterward, run these commands to finish:

```shell
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

The `docker-compose.yml` file statically references the latest version available at the time of downloading the compose file. Each time you upgrade to a newer version of authentik, you download a new `docker-compose.yml` file, which points to the latest available version. For more information, refer to the **Upgrading** section in the [Release Notes](../../releases/).

To start the initial setup, navigate to `http://<your server's IP or hostname>:9000/if/flow/initial-setup/`.

:::info
You will get `Not Found` error if initial setup URL doesn't include the trailing forward slash `/`. Make sure you use the complete url (`http://<your server's IP or hostname>:9000/if/flow/initial-setup/`) including the trailing forward slash.
:::

There you are prompted to set a password for the `akadmin` user (the default user).

For an explanation about what each service in the docker compose file does, see [Architecture](../../core/architecture.md).

Commit message:

website: Prepare for Docusaurus 3.8
Revert "website: Mark all URLs as external."

This reverts commit 3df631a47afa32a4f6b007662f70ee4eaf021210.

website: Flesh out docs split.
website: Copy files during build.

website: Allow for mixed env builds.

website: Reduce build size.

website: Expose build.

website: Add build memory debugging.

WIP: Disable broken links check to compare memory usage.

website: Update deps.

website: Clean up API paths.

website: Flesh out 3.8 fixes.

Format.

website: Update ignore paths.

Website: Clean up integrations build.

website: Fix paths.

website: Optimize remark.

website: Update deps.

website: Format.

website: Remove linking.

website: Fix paths.

wip: Attempt API only build.

Prep.

Migrate render to runtime. Tidy sidebar.

Clean up templates.

docs: Move directory. WIP

docs: Flesh out split.

website: Fix issue where routes have collisions.

website/docs/install-config/install/docker-compose.mdx, after:

---
title: Docker Compose installation
---

This installation method is for test setups and small-scale production setups.

## Requirements

- A host with at least 2 CPU cores and 2 GB of RAM
- Docker
- Docker Compose (Compose v2, see [instructions for upgrade](https://docs.docker.com/compose/migrate/))

## Video

<iframe
    width="560"
    height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/O1qUbrk4Yc8?si=HiSBjmJYhE_oJhB1&amp;start=22"
    title="YouTube video player"
    frameBorder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
    allowFullScreen
></iframe>

## Preparation

To download the latest `docker-compose.yml` open your terminal and navigate to the directory of your choice.
Run the following command:

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs groupId="OS">
    <TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux" default>
        ```shell
        wget https://goauthentik.io/docker-compose.yml
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="macOS" label="macOS">
        ```shell
        curl -O https://goauthentik.io/docker-compose.yml
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

If this is a fresh authentik installation, you need to generate a password and a secret key. Use a secure password generator of your choice such as pwgen, or you can use `openssl` as below.

Run the following commands to generate a password and secret key and write them to your `.env` file:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```shell
echo "PG_PASS=$(openssl rand -base64 36 | tr -d '\n')" >> .env
echo "AUTHENTIK_SECRET_KEY=$(openssl rand -base64 60 | tr -d '\n')" >> .env
```

:::info
Because of a PostgreSQL limitation, only passwords up to 99 chars are supported. See: https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/09512C4F-8CB9-4021-B455-EF4C4F0D55A0@amazon.com
:::

To enable error reporting, run the following command:

```shell
echo "AUTHENTIK_ERROR_REPORTING__ENABLED=true" >> .env
```

## Email configuration (optional but recommended)

It is also recommended to configure global email credentials. These are used by authentik to notify you about alerts and configuration issues. They can also be used by [Email stages](../../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/email/index.mdx) to send verification/recovery emails.

To configure email credentials, append this block to your `.env` file

```shell
# SMTP Host Emails are sent to
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__HOST=localhost
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__PORT=25
# Optionally authenticate (don't add quotation marks to your password)
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__USERNAME=
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__PASSWORD=
# Use StartTLS
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__USE_TLS=false
# Use SSL
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__USE_SSL=false
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__TIMEOUT=10
# Email address authentik will send from, should have a correct @domain
AUTHENTIK_EMAIL__FROM=authentik@localhost
```

## Configure for port 80/443

By default, authentik listens internally on port 9000 for HTTP and 9443 for HTTPS. To change the exposed ports to 80 and 443, you can set the following variables in `.env`:

```shell
COMPOSE_PORT_HTTP=80
COMPOSE_PORT_HTTPS=443
```

See [Configuration](../configuration/configuration.mdx) to change the internal ports. Be sure to run `docker compose up -d` to rebuild with the new port numbers.

## Startup

:::warning
The server assumes to have local timezone as UTC.
All internals are handled in UTC; whenever a time is displayed to the user in UI, the time shown is localized.
Do not update or mount `/etc/timezone` or `/etc/localtime` in the authentik containers.
This will not give any advantages. It will cause problems with OAuth and SAML authentication, e.g. [see this GitHub issue](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/issues/3005).
:::

Afterward, run these commands to finish:

```shell
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

The `docker-compose.yml` file statically references the latest version available at the time of downloading the compose file. Each time you upgrade to a newer version of authentik, you download a new `docker-compose.yml` file, which points to the latest available version. For more information, refer to the **Upgrading** section in the [Release Notes](/releases/).

To start the initial setup, navigate to `http://<your server's IP or hostname>:9000/if/flow/initial-setup/`.

:::info
You will get `Not Found` error if initial setup URL doesn't include the trailing forward slash `/`. Make sure you use the complete url (`http://<your server's IP or hostname>:9000/if/flow/initial-setup/`) including the trailing forward slash.
:::

There you are prompted to set a password for the `akadmin` user (the default user).

For an explanation about what each service in the docker compose file does, see [Architecture](../../core/architecture.md).
